_includes/en/installation/trdl_macos.md, before:

Make sure you have [Git](https://git-scm.com/download/mac) 2.18.0 or newer and [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker) installed.

Setup [trdl](https://github.com/werf/trdl) which will manage `werf` installation and updates:

```shell
# Add ~/bin to the PATH.
echo 'export PATH=$HOME/bin:$PATH' >> ~/.zprofile
export PATH="$HOME/bin:$PATH"

# Install trdl.
curl -L "https://tuf.trdl.dev/targets/releases/0.1.3/darwin-{{ include.arch }}/bin/trdl" -o /tmp/trdl
mkdir -p ~/bin
install /tmp/trdl ~/bin/trdl
```

Add `werf` repo:
```shell
trdl add werf https://tuf.werf.io 1 b7ff6bcbe598e072a86d595a3621924c8612c7e6dc6a82e919abe89707d7e3f468e616b5635630680dd1e98fc362ae5051728406700e6274c5ed1ad92bea52a2
```

To use werf locally in your terminal, we recommend to enable its automatic activation. To make werf available in all new shell sessions, you need to execute this command (just once):
```shell
echo 'source $(trdl use werf {{ include.version }} {{ include.channel }})' >> ~/.zshrc
```

Now, if you log out and log in to the system again, werf will be always available. You can make sure of that by executing:

```shell
werf version
```

To get werf running in your current terminal only (before any logout/login is done), you can simply execute the `source $(trdl use werf {{ include.version }} {{ include.channel }})` command.

In CI, you need a different approaching with activating `werf` explicitly in the beginning of each job/pipeline by executing:

```shell
source $(trdl use werf {{ include.version }} {{ include.channel }})
```

Commit message:

site: syncing updates from the werf/werf repo (#360)

_includes/en/installation/trdl_macos.md, after:

Make sure you have Git 2.18.0 or newer, gpg and [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker) installed.

[Install trdl](https://github.com/werf/trdl/releases/) to `~/bin/trdl`, which will manage `werf` installation and updates. Add `~/bin` to your $PATH.

Add `werf` repo to `trdl`:
```shell
trdl add werf https://tuf.werf.io 1 b7ff6bcbe598e072a86d595a3621924c8612c7e6dc6a82e919abe89707d7e3f468e616b5635630680dd1e98fc362ae5051728406700e6274c5ed1ad92bea52a2
```
 
To use `werf` on a workstation we recommend setting up `werf` _automatic activation_. For this the activation command should be executed for each new shell session. Often this can be achieved by adding the activation command to `~/.zshrc` (for Zsh), `~/.bashrc` (for Bash) or to the one of the profile files. Refer to your shell/terminal manuals for more information. This is the `werf` activation command for the current shell-session:
```shell
source "$(trdl use werf {{ include.version }} {{ include.channel }})"
```

To use `werf` in CI prefer activating `werf` manually instead. For this execute the activation command in the beginning of your CI job, before calling the `werf` binary.

After activation `werf` should be available in the shell-session from which it was activated:
```shell
werf version
```
